Which type of email do you think is a cybersecurity risk,
an email from a stranger or your boss?
That's a trick question.
The answer is both.
Most of us know to be wary of email requests
and links from strangers,
yet we don't always consider the risks
when communicating with people we know.
Business email compromise, or BEC for short,
is an email phishing scam in which attackers
impersonate a vendor, high-level executive,
or another known contact to trick victims
into sending money or revealing sensitive information.
Email compromise and impersonation
costs companies millions every year.
So, how do these scams work
and what warning signs should you watch for?
There are five main types of BEC scams.
Understanding these common techniques
can help you spot and avoid them.
With CEO fraud,
an attacker masquerades as a CEO
or other high-level executive to fool an employee
into giving up information or money.
Fake invoice schemes involve sending fraudulent invoices
that appear to come from a legitimate vendor,
supplier, or business partner.
Account compromise happens when an attacker
hacks the email account of an executive
or other high-ranking employee.
As you might guess,
attorney impersonation occurs when a cybercriminal poses
as a lawyer or other legal representative
to access company funds or data.
Finally, data theft scams often target employees
in human resources and attempt to solicit tax
or personal information
about company executives or employees.
Successful thieves can use this information
to carry out more sophisticated social engineering attacks.
Fraudulent emails can be highly convincing.
Attackers may gather information about their targets
so they can reference insider details
about company accounts, people, or calendars,
making requests sound more legitimate.
They also often use fake email addresses
or lookalike domains that mimic the real thing.
But that's not the only reason BEC attacks
are so successful.
Attackers also exploit people's response to authority.
Low-level or mid-level employees are less likely
to question requests that appear to come from higher-ups.
So, beyond knowing the risks and types of BEC scams,
what else can you do to recognize and stop attacks?
Know the warning signs.
Here are five red flags.
First, be alert if you receive any requests
from a high-level executive involving financial payment
or sensitive employee information.
Ask yourself, "Is this a common request?
Does this person typically email me directly?
Is this the standard process and channel
for handling this type of request?"
If you answered no to any of these questions,
then the email may be compromised.
You can also spot impersonators
by inspecting sender email addresses.
Don't trust emails in which the from, reply to,
or display name fields don't match.
Also, look closely for slight modifications
to a legitimate email address or domain.
For example, if an executive's legitimate email address
is john@glivy.com,
an attacker might create a near identical email address,
for example swapping the letter I in Glivy
with the number one.
An email's tone can also tip you off to fraudulent requests.
Urgent or confidential requests are red flags.
Attackers try to manipulate targets into acting quickly
and without asking questions.
Fourth, be suspicious of unsolicited or unusual invoices.
Always inspect an invoice carefully before paying it.
Were you expecting this invoice?
Does the invoice date, account number, contact information,
and payment amount match your records
and appear legitimate?
If in doubt, visit the vendor in person
or call them over the phone to verify.
Finally, take a closer look at emails written
in broken English or with typos, grammar,
and spelling mistakes.
An email using European spellings,
sentence structures, or date formats
should sound alarms if it supposedly comes
from an American employee or company.
Email impersonators can be challenging to detect.
Armed with company information and fake email addresses,
these cybercriminals send highly convincing emails
that seem like legitimate business requests.
To safeguard against business email compromise scams,
remember these key takeaways.
Familiarize yourself with the five types of BEC
so that you can recognize and avoid them.
Carefully inspect any email containing
a financial or sensitive information request,
even if it appears to come from your boss
or another executive.
And finally, don't wait to tell your supervisor
or IT department about attempted
or successful cyberattacks.
With awareness and vigilance,
you can block attempted BEC attacks
and avoid inadvertently funding cybercriminals.